---
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: true
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# ACTS

ACTS, the Advanced Combinatorial Testing System, is a tool designed to simplify the process of constructing t-way combinatorial test sets. Developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and UT Arlington, the tool provides three interfaces, including Graphical User Interface, Command Line Interface (CLI) and Application Programming Interface (API).

### Core Features

#### T-way Test Set Generation

Specializing in t-way test set generation, ACTS has a current support range of 1 to 6 for the parameter t. This core feature ensures that for any selection of t parameters in a system, all possible combinations of their values are covered in at least one test within the set. ACTS also includes base-choice testing, guaranteeing the inclusion of each parameter value, especially significant ones like defaults or frequently used values. It employs various algorithms, such as IPOG, IPOG-D, IPOG-F, and IPOG-F2, tailored to different system sizes and complexity, while offering both scratch and extend modes for test set generation, saving valuable time by building upon existing sets.

#### Mixed Strength

ACTS allows users to define parameter groups with varying strengths, enhancing test coverage flexibility. For example, within a system of 10 parameters, testers can establish relations of different strengths to capture distinct interactions, potentially leading to software fault detection. These custom parameter relations can overlap or subsume each other, with subsumed relations being ignored by the test generation engine. Mixed strength functionality is supported in IPOG and IPOG-F algorithms.

#### Constraint Support

ACTS supports constraint specification to ensure that generated test sets only include valid combinations according to domain semantics. This eliminates invalid configurations. Currently, constraint support is available for the IPOG and IPOG-F algorithms.

#### Negative Testing

ACTS allows the user to designate some values of a parameter as invalid values. During test generation, ACTS ensures that each test contains at most one invalid value. This is to avoid potential masking effect between invalid values. In addition, ACTS ensures that every invalid value is combined with every (t-1)-way combination of valid values.

#### Coverage Verification

This feature is used to verify whether a test set satisfies t-way coverage, i.e. whether it covers all the t-way combinations. A test set to be verified can be a test set generated by ACTS or a test set supplied by the user (and then imported into ACTS).

### &#x20;Application

ACTS provides 3 options:

*   Command Line Interface, ran with

    ```bash
    java <options> -jar acts.jar <input_filename> [output_filename]
    ```
* Graphic User Interface
* Application Programming Interface

### Obtaining ACTS

{% embed url="https://csrc.nist.rip/groups/SNS/acts/documents/comparison-report.html" %}

To request a copy, follow the guidelines in the website above.

