# 1. Input Space Partitioning

The input space of a program consists of all possible inputs that could be taken by the program. Input space partitioning involves the selection of all possible inputs in the input space such that execution will reveal all the faults of the program. The goal of input space partitioning is to select a set of test cases that will reveal as many faults as possible. ISP is achieved through two approaches, which are often intuitive:

*   **Equivalence partitioning**

    A set of equivalent classes in which all members contribute to fault detection in the same way. Such partitions are usually based on a certain characteristic. A partition must satisfy two properties:

    * Completeness: A partition must cover the entire domain
    * Disjoint: The blocks must not overlap
*   **Boundary-Value Analysis**

    A test selection technique that targets faults in applications at or near the boundaries of equivalence classes.

In addition, ISP can be seen through Input Parameter Modeling, in which testable components, input parameters, and environment configurations are identified and partitioned based on characteristic.&#x20;

* **Interface-Based IPM** uses the **syntactical** interface of a program to partition the input space. This means that it considers the structure and format of inputs, but not their meaning.
* **Functionality-Based IPM** uses the **semantics** of a program to partition the input space. This means that it considers the meaning of the inputs and how they affect the program's behavior.

## Tool

There is no single, universally recognized tool designated for the demonstration of input space partitioning, particularly given that the concept is often considered intuitive among software developers. In a systematic exploration of the open-source landscape to identify such a tool, we engaged in a comprehensive search methodology that covered:

* Search engines (i.e. Google, Bing)
* Open source directories (i.e. GitHub, SourceForge, GitLab)
* Academic research papers (i.e. Google Scholar, ACM Digital Library, IEEE Xplore)

Search terms on these platforms included:

* "Input Space Partitioning open source tools"
* "Equivalence partitioning open-source tools"
* "Boundary-Value Analysis software"
* "Input Parameter Modeling tools"
* "Interface-Based IPM open-source software"
* "Functionality-Based IPM tools"
* "Equivalence class test case generator"
* "Boundary value test case generator"
* "Input space partitioning utilities"

